Former Trump administration officials, from Comey to Cordray
Trump's pick for CFPB director challenged
Caroline Shively has the latest.

Richard Cordray, who was appointed to lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau by former President Barack Obama, announced earlier this month that he would retire by November’s end.

In his official resignation Friday, Cordray launched the relatively young government agency into a bureaucratic tug-of-war over just who will replace him. Cordray elevated his chief of staff into a position to take over the CFPB; President Trump named Office of Management and Budget director Mick Mulvaney to the spot.

There has been a growing number of people who have left the Trump administration in just its first year – a group that includes former press secretary Sean Spicer, F.B.I. director James Comey and chief strategist Steve Bannon. Read on for a running list of who has left the White House since Trump took office.

Sally Yates
FILE - In this June 28, 2016 file photo, then-Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates speaks during a news conference at the Justice Department in Washington. An Obama administration official who warned the Trump White House about contacts between Russia and one of its key advisers is set to speak publicly for the first time about the concerns she raised. Yates is testifying May 8, 2017, before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. (AP Photo/J. David Ake, File)
Sally Yates was removed from her position as acting attorney general after she refused to enforce President Donald Trump's travel ban.  (AP Photo/J. David Ake)
Taking over as acting attorney general following the departure of Loretta Lynch, Sally Yates, 57, was removed from her position on January 30.

Yates refused to enforce Trump’s controversial travel ban and issued a memo to the Justice Department not to defend the executive order.

Michael Flynn
FILE - In this Feb. 1, 2017 file photo, tne-National Security Adviser Michael Flynn speaks during the daily news briefing at the White House, in Washington. Flynn has opened a new consulting firm called Resilient Patriot, LLC that is advising private equity firms, according to one of his brothers, who says Flynn is â??moving on with his life." (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster, File)
Michael Flynn resigned as the Trump administration's embattled national security adviser in February.  (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)
Michael Flynn, Trump’s embattled national security adviser, resigned on February 13 after it was revealed that he apparently lied about conversations he had with the Russian ambassador.

“I have nothing to be ashamed for and everything to be proud of,” Flynn, 58, told Fox News at the time.

Preet Bharara
FILE - In this  June 8, 2017, file photo, former United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York Preet Bharara arrives before former FBI director James Comey testifies at a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington. Bharara told USA Today for an article published on Sept. 18, 2017, that he is launching a new podcast called "Stay Tuned With Preet." (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik, File)
Preet Bharara was fired from his position as Manhattan federal prosecutor after he declined to resign.  (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
Manhattan federal prosecutor Preet Bharara, 49, was fired on March 11 after he declined to willingly resign from his job.

The Justice Department said in March that attorneys general who were holdovers from the Obama administration needed to resign. Bharara refused to do so.

“I did not resign. Moments ago I was fired,” Bharara tweeted. “Being the US Attorney in [the Southern District of New York] will forever be the greatest honor of my professional life.”

Katie Walsh
Deputy chief of staff Katie Walsh resigned on March 30 after a Trump-backed health care bill failed to make it through the House, according to The Associated Press.

She left the White House to join the pro-Trump nonprofit America First Policies.

Walsh came to the White House after serving in the Republican National Committee under then-chairman Reince Priebus.

James Comey
Former FBI Director James Comey testifies before a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on "Russian Federation Efforts to Interfere in the 2016 U.S. Elections" on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S. June 8, 2017. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst - RTX39P38
Fired FBI Director James Comey was fired by Trump abruptly.  (Reuters/Jonathan Ernst)
Trump abruptly fired former F.B.I. Director James Comey in a brief letter on May 9, saying that Comey could not “effectively lead” the bureau any longer.

Trump repeatedly criticized Comey’s handling of the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s personal email server, and Comey said after his firing that he felt uncomfortable by comments Trump made about the F.B.I.’s investigation into Flynn.

Comey, 56, reportedly was speaking to employees in Los Angeles when news of his ousting came across the television. At the time, according to reports, Comey thought it was a prank.

Michael Dubke
While former White House Communications Director Michael Dubke, 47, tendered his resignation quietly on May 18, he stayed on with the administration until after the president’s first foreign trip.

He said that he resigned due to “personal” reasons.

Walter Shaub
FILE - In this Jan. 23, 2017 file photo, Walter Shaub Jr., director of the U.S. Office of Government Ethics walks on Capitol Hill in Washington. Shaub, who prodded President Donald Trumpâ??s administration over conflicts of interest is resigning to take a new job, at the Campaign Legal Center, a nonprofit in Washington that mostly focuses on violations of campaign finance law. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File)
Walter Shaub Jr. resigned from his position as the director of the Office of Government Ethics.  (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
Office of Government Ethics Director Walter Shaub Jr. announced on July 6 that he was resigning from his job after clashing with Trump. His final date in office was July 19.

In his position, Shaub, 46, was often at odds with the Trump administration, particularly when it came to Trump’s business dealings.

Shaub joined the Campaign Legal Center, an organization in Washington that mostly focuses on violations of campaign finance law.

Sean Spicer
White House press secretary Sean Spicer does a television interview at the White House, Friday, June 23, 2017, in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
Sean Spicer resigned as White House press secretary after the administration hired Anthony Scaramucci.  (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)
After the hiring of Anthony Scaramucci, White House press secretary Sean Spicer, 46, announced his resignation on July 21. 

Michael Short
White House assistant press secretary Michael Short resigned on July 25 after Scaramucci informed Politico of his intent to fire him.

“This is the problem with the leaking,” Scaramucci reportedly told reporters. “This is actually a terrible thing. Let’s say I’m firing Michael Short today. The fact that you guys know about it before he does really upsets me as a human being and as a Roman Catholic.”

Short eventually resigned later in the day, saying it was a “a privilege to serve” Trump. 

Reince Priebus
Chief of Staff Reince Priebus attends a breakfast meeting with small business leaders hosted by U.S. President Donald Trump (not pictured) at the Roosevelt room of the White House in Washington U.S., January 30, 2017.  REUTERS/Carlos Barria - RTSY37T
Reince Priebus, the former RNC head, was out as Trump's chief of staff in July.  (Reuters/Carlos Barria)
Trump announced Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly as his new White House chief of staff on July 28 – effectively ousting Reince Priebus. 

The replacement of Preibus, 45, as chief of staff came amid tensions between he and then-White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci.

Anthony Scaramucci
White House Communications Director Anthony Scaramucci accompanies U.S. President Donald Trump for an event about his proposed U.S. government effort against the street gang Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, with a gathering of federal, state and local law enforcement officials in Brentwood, New York, U.S. July 28, 2017. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst - RTX3DC5F
Anthony Scaramucci lasted as the White House communications director for only 10 days.  (Reuters/Jonathan Ernst)
The announcement of Anthony Scaramucci, 53, as the White House communications director on July 21 set into motion a big shakeup in White House staff, resulting in the resignations of press secretary Sean Spicer and chief of staff Reince Priebus.

But Scaramucci himself lasted only 10 days in the White House. He was reportedly removed at the request of new White House chief of staff John Kelly. 

Kelly was sworn in as chief of staff just hours before Scaramucci was removed. 

Steve Bannon
Former White House strategist Steve Bannon speaks at a rally for U.S. Senate hopeful Roy Moore, Monday, Sept. 25, 2017, in Fairhope, Ala. (AP Photo/Brynn Anderson)
Steve Bannon, the Breitbart News chief, was removed from his position as chief strategist in August.  (AP Photo/Brynn Anderson)
Steve Bannon was removed from his position as White House chief strategist on Aug. 18.

The Breitbart News chief joined Trump's presidential campaign and was later appointed to a senior adviser role after Trump won the election.

Bannon, the 64-year-old hardcore populist, had become increasingly isolated inside the White House following John Kelly's appointment as chief of staff, sources inside the White House and outside advisers recently told Fox News.

Questions about Bannon’s future in the Trump administration abounded following the president’s controversial response to the deadly violence in Charlottesville, Va., during a white nationalist rally.

A White House aide told Fox News that Bannon’s ouster wasn’t sudden; he submitted his resignation in writing several weeks prior, the aide said.

Sebastian Gorka
Deputy assistant to President Trump Sebastian Gorka talks with people in the Treaty Room in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House complex in Washington, Tuesday, May 2, 2017, during a ceremony commemorating Israeli Independence Day. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
Deputy assistant to President Donald Trump is no longer employed with the administration, the White House announced in August.  (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
The White House announced that Sebastian Gorka, deputy assistant to Trump, was no longer a part of the administration during a Friday evening news dump on Aug. 25.

White House officials told Fox News that Gorka, 47, did not resign but confirmed that he “no longer works” with the administration.

However, Gorka insisted to the Washington Examiner that he did actually resign.

A former Breitbart news editor, Gorka joined the Trump administration as a counterterrorism adviser and assisted with national security policy decisions alongside Bannon, according to White House sources.

Tom Price
FILE - In this Jan. 5, 2016, file Rep. Tom Price, R-Ga., is seen on Capitol Hill in Washington. An orthopedic surgeon elected in 2004, Price has long been a conservative critic of Obamacare, arguing instead for as little government involvement as possible. He applies the same idea to criticisms of Medicare, the government insurance programs for older Americans, and Medicaid, government insurance for the poor and disabled.  (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File)
Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price resigned from his position in September following reports that he used costly private plans at the taxpayers' expense.  (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
Tom Price officially resigned from his post as Health and Human Services Secretary on Sept. 29, according to a statement released by press secretary Sarah Sanders.

The move came after Price received major criticism following reports of his use of private planes.

Price had promised to repay the government for the use of his costly flights and vowed never to take a private charter plane again while in his post as secretary. But Trump had suggested that he was still considering firing Price. 

Richard Cordray
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director Richard Cordray speaks in Washington, October 17, 2014.       REUTERS/Larry Downing   (UNITED STATES - Tags: POLITICS BUSINESS) - GM1EAAI05RZ02
Richard Cordray resigned from his position as head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau on Nov. 24.  (Reuters/Larry Downing)
Richard Cordray effectively resigned from his post as the head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau on Nov. 24 – setting off a fight between his former chief of staff and the White House over who will replace him.

Cordray’s resignation didn’t come as a surprise; he had previously said he would quit his job by the end of November. But many thought his resignation would set Trump up to appoint his own director of an agency that has been widely criticized by his administration and Republicans alike.

However, before his resignation, Cordray, 58, elevated his chief of staff Leandra English to the deputy director position – meaning she would become acting CFPB director after he quit. But the White House announced Mick Mulvaney, head of the Office of Management and Budget, as its interim director.

English filed a lawsuit in federal court Sunday asking for a temporary restraining order to block Mulvaney from taking over the bureau. Mulvaney showed up at the CFPB with doughnuts Monday morning. 

Fox News' Kristin Brown and The Associated Press contributed to this report.